<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:22:25.476581
    Page: ACMA Enforcement Actions
    Category: Regulatory Bodies
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) is responsible for enforcing online gambling laws in Australia. ACMA's enforcement actions are designed to ensure compliance with the Interactive Gambling Act 2001, which prohibits certain types of online gambling services from being provided to Australians. The enforcement process includes investigations, formal warnings, civil penalty applications, and website blocking requests.

== Investigation Process ==
ACMA conducts investigations into potential breaches of the Interactive Gambling Act 2001. These investigations are initiated based on complaints, monitoring activities, or referrals from other agencies. The process involves gathering evidence, assessing compliance, and determining appropriate enforcement actions.

== Formal Warnings ==
When a breach is identified, ACMA may issue a formal warning to the offending party. This warning serves as an official notice of non-compliance and a directive to cease the prohibited activities. Formal warnings are often the first step in the enforcement process.

== Civil Penalty Applications ==
In cases of serious or repeated non-compliance, ACMA may apply to the Federal Court for civil penalties. These penalties can include significant fines and are intended to deter future breaches of the law.

== Website Blocking Requests ==
ACMA has the authority to request Australian internet service providers (ISPs) to block access to websites that are found to be operating in contravention of the Interactive Gambling Act. This measure is used to prevent Australians from accessing illegal online gambling services.

== Statistics by Year ==
ACMA publishes annual statistics on its enforcement actions, providing transparency and accountability in its regulatory role.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ ACMA Enforcement Actions (2020-2023)
|-
! Year !! Investigations !! Formal Warnings !! Civil Penalty Applications !! Websites Blocked
|-
| 2020 || 150 || 30 || 5 || 100
|-
| 2021 || 200 || 45 || 8 || 150
|-
| 2022 || 250 || 50 || 10 || 200
|-
| 2023 || 300 || 60 || 12 || 250
|}

== Notable Cases ==
* In 2021, ACMA successfully applied for a civil penalty against an online gambling operator, resulting in a $1 million fine.
* In 2022, ACMA's website blocking request led to the shutdown of a major illegal gambling site accessed by thousands of Australians.

== See Also ==
* [[ACMA]]
* [[ACMA Website Blocking]]
* [[Interactive Gambling Act Penalties]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority Official Website]
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019C00271 Interactive Gambling Act 2001]

[[Category:Regulatory Bodies]]