<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:22:37.607399
    Page: ACMA Website Blocking
    Category: Regulatory Bodies
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) implements a website blocking program to restrict access to illegal gambling websites. This initiative is based on the legal framework provided by section 313 of the Interactive Gambling Act 2001 (IGA). The program aims to protect Australian consumers from unregulated offshore gambling services.

== Legal Basis ==
The legal authority for ACMA's website blocking program is derived from section 313 of the Interactive Gambling Act 2001. This section empowers ACMA to request Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to block access to websites that offer illegal gambling services to Australians.

== Process for Adding Sites to Block List ==
ACMA identifies illegal gambling websites through investigations and complaints. Once a site is confirmed to be operating illegally, ACMA can issue a formal request to ISPs to block the site. This process ensures that Australian consumers are shielded from unauthorized gambling services.

== ISP Obligations ==
ISPs in Australia are required to comply with ACMA's requests to block illegal gambling websites. This compliance is part of their obligations under the IGA, ensuring that they contribute to the enforcement of Australian gambling laws.

== Number of Sites Blocked ==
As of 2024, ACMA has successfully blocked over 1,000 illegal gambling websites. This effort is part of a broader strategy to curb illegal gambling activities and protect Australian consumers.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Number of Sites Blocked by Year
! Year !! Number of Sites Blocked
|-
| 2020 || 150
|-
| 2021 || 300
|-
| 2022 || 500
|-
| 2023 || 800
|-
| 2024 || 1,000+
|}

== Effectiveness and Limitations ==
While the website blocking program has been effective in reducing access to illegal gambling sites, it is not without limitations. Some users employ Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) to circumvent these blocks, accessing prohibited sites despite the restrictions. This presents an ongoing challenge for regulators.

== VPN Circumvention ==
VPNs allow users to mask their location, making it possible to access blocked websites. This technology poses a significant challenge to the effectiveness of ACMA's website blocking efforts, as it can undermine the intended protections.

== Public Register ==
ACMA maintains a public register of blocked websites, providing transparency and accountability. This register is accessible to the public and lists all websites that have been blocked under the program.

== See Also ==
* [[ACMA]]
* [[ACMA Enforcement Actions]]
* [[Illegal Offshore Gambling]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ ACMA Official Website]
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2023C00137 Interactive Gambling Act 2001]

[[Category:Regulatory Bodies]]