<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:22:13.343986
    Page: Australian Communications and Media Authority
    Category: Regulatory Bodies
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) is the federal regulator responsible for enforcing online gambling laws in Australia. Established on 1 July 2005 through the merger of the Australian Broadcasting Authority (ABA) and the Australian Communications Authority (ACA), ACMA operates under the Australian Communications and Media Authority Act 2005. It plays a crucial role in regulating communications and media, including the enforcement of gambling functions under the Interactive Gambling Act 2001 (IGA).

== Establishment and Legislation ==
ACMA was established on 1 July 2005, following the merger of the ABA and ACA. The authority was created under the Australian Communications and Media Authority Act 2005, which outlines its responsibilities and powers.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Key Information
|-
! Attribute !! Details
|-
| Established || 1 July 2005
|-
| Legislation || Australian Communications and Media Authority Act 2005
|-
| Predecessors || Australian Broadcasting Authority (ABA), Australian Communications Authority (ACA)
|}

== Gambling Enforcement Functions ==
Under the Interactive Gambling Act 2001, ACMA is tasked with enforcing regulations related to online gambling. This includes monitoring compliance and taking enforcement actions against illegal gambling services.

== Enforcement Powers ==
ACMA has the authority to enforce compliance with the IGA through various measures. This includes issuing formal warnings, infringement notices, and initiating court proceedings against non-compliant operators.

== Website Blocking Program ==
ACMA administers a website blocking program to restrict access to illegal offshore gambling websites. This program involves working with internet service providers to block access to sites that breach the IGA.

== BetStop Administration ==
ACMA is responsible for the administration of BetStop, the national self-exclusion register for online gambling. This service allows individuals to exclude themselves from participating in online gambling activities.

== Complaint Handling ==
ACMA handles complaints related to online gambling services. It investigates complaints and takes appropriate enforcement actions to ensure compliance with Australian laws.

== Public Register of Blocked Sites ==
ACMA maintains a public register of websites that have been blocked due to non-compliance with the IGA. This register is regularly updated to reflect the current status of blocked sites.

== See Also ==
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[BetStop]]
* [[ACMA Enforcement Actions]]
* [[ACMA Website Blocking]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au ACMA Official Website]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/online-gambling ACMA Online Gambling]

[[Category:Regulatory Bodies]]