<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:25:06.960000
    Page: BetStop/Ending an Exclusion
    Category: Consumer Protection
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
BetStop is a national self-exclusion register in Australia that allows individuals to exclude themselves from all licensed interactive wagering services. Ending or revoking a BetStop exclusion involves specific processes depending on the type of exclusion initially chosen.

== Fixed-term Exclusions ==
Fixed-term exclusions under BetStop are designed to end automatically once the designated period has elapsed. Individuals who have opted for a fixed-term exclusion do not need to take any additional steps to resume gambling activities after the exclusion period ends. However, there is a mandatory 7-day cooling-off period before they can begin gambling again.

== Lifetime Exclusion Revocation ==
For those who have chosen a lifetime exclusion, the process to revoke this exclusion is more involved. Individuals must wait a minimum of three months from the start of their exclusion before they can apply for revocation. Additionally, they are required to attend a counselling session as part of the revocation process. This session aims to ensure that the individual is making an informed decision about returning to gambling.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ BetStop Exclusion Revocation Process
! Type of Exclusion !! Automatic End !! Minimum Time Before Revocation !! Counselling Requirement
|-
| Fixed-term || Yes || Not applicable || No
|-
| Lifetime || No || 3 months || Yes
|}

== See Also ==
* [[BetStop]]
* [[Gambling Help Services]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/betstop BetStop - Australian Communications and Media Authority]

[[Category:Consumer Protection]]