<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:24:33.187012
    Page: BetStop
    Category: Consumer Protection
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
'''BetStop''' is Australia's National Self-Exclusion Register for online wagering, designed to assist individuals in managing their gambling activities by allowing them to self-exclude from all licensed interactive wagering services in Australia. Launched on 21 August 2023, BetStop is administered by the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) and forms a key component of the National Consumer Protection Framework.

== Registration Process ==
Individuals can register for BetStop through an online portal or via phone. The registration process requires personal identification to ensure that the exclusion is applied accurately across all platforms.

== Exclusion Periods ==
BetStop offers several exclusion periods to accommodate different needs:
* 3 months
* 6 months
* 12 months
* Lifetime

== What Happens When You Register ==
Once registered, an individual's details are added to the national database, and all licensed wagering operators are required to prevent the individual from opening new accounts or placing bets.

== Operator Obligations ==
Operators must:
* Check the BetStop register before opening new accounts or accepting bets.
* Ensure that marketing materials are not sent to individuals on the register.
* Comply with data protection and privacy regulations.

== Scope and Limitations ==
BetStop applies to all licensed online wagering services in Australia. However, it does not cover in-person betting at physical venues or unlicensed offshore operators.

== Privacy and Data Handling ==
BetStop adheres to strict privacy and data handling protocols to protect the personal information of registrants. The ACMA ensures that data is securely stored and only accessible to authorized personnel.

== Revocation Process ==
Individuals who wish to revoke their self-exclusion can do so after the minimum exclusion period has elapsed, except in the case of a lifetime exclusion, which cannot be revoked.

== Statistics ==
As of the last update, detailed statistics on the number of registrants and the effectiveness of the program are collected by the ACMA but are not publicly disclosed.

== See Also ==
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]
* [[ACMA]]
* [[Responsible Gambling Tools]]
* [[State Self-Exclusion Schemes]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.betstop.gov.au BetStop Official Website]

[[Category:Consumer Protection]]