<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:24:53.175886
    Page: BetStop/Operator Obligations
    Category: Consumer Protection
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
'''BetStop/Operator Obligations''' refer to the responsibilities that licensed gambling operators in Australia must adhere to concerning the BetStop register, a national self-exclusion register designed to protect consumers from gambling-related harm.

== Requirements for Licensed Operators ==

Licensed operators in Australia have specific obligations regarding the BetStop register to ensure consumer protection and compliance with national regulations.

=== Checking the BetStop Register ===
Operators are required to check the BetStop register before allowing any individual to open a new gambling account. This ensures that individuals who have self-excluded are not permitted to gamble.

=== Account Closure ===
If an individual on the BetStop register holds an existing account, operators must close the account within 24 hours of identifying the self-exclusion status.

=== Refusal of New Accounts ===
Operators must refuse the creation of new gambling accounts for individuals listed on the BetStop register.

=== Marketing Cessation ===
Operators are prohibited from sending marketing materials to individuals who are registered with BetStop. This includes all forms of direct marketing communications.

== Penalties for Non-Compliance ==

Failure to comply with BetStop obligations can result in significant penalties for operators. The maximum penalty for corporations is $666,000. These penalties are enforced to ensure adherence to consumer protection standards.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Penalties for Non-Compliance
! Violation !! Penalty Amount
|-
| Failure to check BetStop register || Up to $666,000
|-
| Allowing account creation for self-excluded individuals || Up to $666,000
|-
| Sending marketing materials to self-excluded individuals || Up to $666,000
|}

== Audit and Compliance Checks ==

Regular audits and compliance checks are conducted to ensure that operators are adhering to their obligations regarding the BetStop register. These checks help maintain the integrity of the self-exclusion system and protect consumers from gambling-related harm.

== See Also ==
* [[BetStop]]
* [[Interactive Gambling Act Penalties]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/australias-gambling-laws Australian Communications and Media Authority - Australia's Gambling Laws]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/betstop-national-self-exclusion-register BetStop - National Self-Exclusion Register]

[[Category:Consumer Protection]]