<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:37:59.673617
    Page: Betting Exchanges
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
A betting exchange is a platform that allows individuals to bet against each other rather than against a traditional bookmaker. This peer-to-peer model enables users to offer and accept bets at odds they set themselves, with the exchange acting as an intermediary.

== How Betting Exchanges Work ==
Betting exchanges function by matching bets between users who wish to back a selection and those who wish to lay it. Unlike traditional bookmakers, exchanges do not set odds or take positions on outcomes. Instead, they facilitate the matching of bets and charge a commission on net winnings.

== Back and Lay Betting ==
In a betting exchange, users can either back a selection, betting on it to win, or lay a selection, betting on it to lose. This dual capability allows for more flexible betting strategies, such as trading positions to lock in profits or minimize losses.

== Betfair in Australia ==
Betfair is the most prominent betting exchange operating in Australia. It launched in the country in 2006 and has since become a significant player in the Australian gambling market. Betfair operates under a license from the Northern Territory Government, adhering to Australian gambling regulations.

== Legal Status ==
Betting exchanges are legal in Australia, provided they operate under a valid license. The regulatory framework ensures that exchanges comply with responsible gambling practices and protect the interests of consumers.

== Commission Structure ==
Betting exchanges typically charge a commission on net winnings from successful bets. The commission rate can vary, but it is generally a percentage of the winnings. For example, Betfair charges a base commission rate of around 5%, which can be reduced through a loyalty program based on betting volume.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Example Commission Structure
|-
! Exchange !! Base Commission Rate !! Reduced Rate
|-
| Betfair || 5% || As low as 2% with loyalty program
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Betting Exchange Licence]]
* [[Sports Betting]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.betfair.com.au Betfair Australia Official Site]
* [https://nt.gov.au/industry/gambling Northern Territory Government - Gambling Regulation]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]