<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:21:36.497408
    Page: Broadcasting Services Act 1992 - Gambling Provisions
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The '''Broadcasting Services Act 1992''' is a key piece of federal legislation in Australia that governs the broadcasting sector, including provisions related to gambling advertising. The Act outlines specific rules and restrictions to ensure that gambling advertisements are broadcast responsibly, particularly focusing on the protection of minors and vulnerable audiences.

== Schedule 2 Gambling Advertising Rules ==
Schedule 2 of the Broadcasting Services Act 1992 contains specific provisions regarding gambling advertising. These rules are designed to limit the exposure of gambling content to children and to ensure that such advertisements are not misleading or deceptive.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Key Provisions of Schedule 2
! Provision !! Description
|-
| Advertising Restrictions || Limits on the times and types of programs during which gambling advertisements can be aired.
|-
| Responsible Messaging || Requirement for advertisements to include messages about responsible gambling.
|-
| Prohibition During Children's Programming || Gambling advertisements are prohibited during programs primarily aimed at children.
|}

== Live Odds Restrictions ==
The Act imposes restrictions on the promotion of live odds during sports broadcasts. These restrictions are intended to minimize the influence of gambling on sports audiences, particularly during live events. Broadcasters are required to adhere to strict guidelines about when and how live odds can be mentioned.

== Prominent Warnings Requirements ==
Under the Act, broadcasters must include prominent warnings in gambling advertisements. These warnings are intended to remind viewers of the risks associated with gambling and to promote responsible gambling practices. The warnings must be clearly visible and audible to ensure they are effective.

== Relationship to NCPF ==
The National Consumer Protection Framework (NCPF) for Online Wagering is closely related to the provisions of the Broadcasting Services Act 1992. The NCPF aims to provide a consistent national approach to consumer protection in online wagering, and the Act's provisions on gambling advertising complement these efforts by regulating how gambling is promoted across broadcasting platforms.

== See Also ==
* [[Gambling Advertising Restrictions]]
* [[ACMA]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2023C00139 Broadcasting Services Act 1992 - Full Text]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]