<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:37:15.989736
    Page: Esports Betting
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Esports betting in Australia involves placing wagers on competitive video gaming events, which are conducted by licensed operators. It is a growing segment of the gambling industry, reflecting the increasing popularity of esports globally. While esports betting is legal in Australia, it is subject to specific regulations to ensure fair play and integrity.

== Legal Status ==
In Australia, esports betting is permitted but must be conducted through licensed operators. These operators are regulated under the [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]], which governs online and interactive gambling services. The Act ensures that all betting activities, including esports, are conducted fairly and transparently.

== Popular Esports ==
Esports betting in Australia commonly features several popular games, including:
* Counter-Strike 2 (CS2)
* League of Legends
* Dota 2

These games attract significant viewership and betting interest, contributing to the growth of esports as a mainstream entertainment and betting option.

== Licensed Operators ==
Only operators with a valid license can offer esports betting services in Australia. These operators are required to comply with national and state regulations to maintain their licenses. The table below lists some of the licensed operators offering esports betting:

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Licensed Esports Betting Operators
! Operator Name !! License Authority
|-
| Sportsbet || Northern Territory Racing Commission
|-
| Bet365 || Northern Territory Racing Commission
|-
| Ladbrokes || Northern Territory Racing Commission
|}

== In-Play Restrictions ==
Australian law imposes restrictions on in-play betting, which applies to esports as well. In-play betting, or live betting, refers to placing bets on events that are already in progress. This restriction is intended to protect the integrity of the sport and prevent match-fixing.

== Integrity Concerns ==
As with traditional sports, esports faces challenges related to integrity, including match-fixing and cheating. Regulatory bodies and operators work together to monitor and address these issues, ensuring a fair and transparent betting environment.

== See Also ==
* [[Sports Betting]]
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority]
* [https://www.dss.gov.au/ Department of Social Services - Gambling]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]