<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:41:49.783513
    Page: Gambling Research Organisations
    Category: Reference
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Gambling research organisations in Australia play a crucial role in understanding the impacts and dynamics of gambling within the country. These organisations conduct studies to inform policy, support harm minimisation strategies, and provide insights into gambling behaviours and trends.

== Australian Institute of Family Studies (AIFS) ==
The Australian Institute of Family Studies is a government agency that conducts research on issues affecting Australian families. The AIFS includes the Australian Gambling Research Centre, which focuses on gambling-related research to inform policy and practice.

== Australian Gambling Research Centre ==
The Australian Gambling Research Centre (AGRC) is a part of the AIFS and is dedicated to providing high-quality, evidence-based research on gambling. The AGRC aims to enhance understanding of gambling and its effects on individuals and communities.

== Gambling Research Australia ==
Gambling Research Australia (GRA) is a collaborative partnership between the Commonwealth, State, and Territory Governments. It funds research projects to address national gambling issues and supports the development of informed public policy.

== Central Queensland University Gambling Research ==
Central Queensland University (CQU) conducts extensive research on gambling, focusing on the social and economic impacts of gambling. The university's research contributes to the development of effective harm minimisation strategies and policies.

== Victorian Responsible Gambling Foundation ==
The Victorian Responsible Gambling Foundation is an independent statutory authority that aims to prevent and reduce gambling harm in Victoria. It conducts research to inform its programs and initiatives, promoting responsible gambling practices.

== Research Organisations Overview ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Organisation !! Focus Area !! Location
|-
| Australian Institute of Family Studies || Family and gambling research || Melbourne, Victoria
|-
| Australian Gambling Research Centre || Evidence-based gambling research || Melbourne, Victoria
|-
| Gambling Research Australia || National gambling issues || Various locations
|-
| Central Queensland University || Social and economic impacts || Rockhampton, Queensland
|-
| Victorian Responsible Gambling Foundation || Responsible gambling practices || Melbourne, Victoria
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Gambling Harm Statistics]]

== External Links ==
* [https://aifs.gov.au/research/gambling AIFS Gambling Research]

[[Category:Reference]]