<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:31:29.472357
    Page: Gambling Help Services
    Category: Consumer Protection
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Gambling Help Services provide essential support for individuals affected by gambling-related issues. These services are designed to offer free, confidential, and 24/7 assistance through various channels, including phone, chat, and email. They also encompass financial counselling and family support, ensuring comprehensive aid for those in need.

== National Support Services ==

=== Gambling Help Online ===
Gambling Help Online is a national service available to all Australians, offering support through multiple platforms. It is accessible 24/7 and provides free and confidential assistance.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Service !! Details
|-
| Phone Support || 1800 858 858
|-
| Availability || 24/7
|-
| Confidentiality || Free and confidential
|-
| Support Channels || Phone, chat, email
|}

=== Gamblers Anonymous Australia ===
Gamblers Anonymous Australia offers a fellowship of individuals who share their experiences, strength, and hope to solve their common problem and help others recover from a gambling problem.

== State-Specific Services ==
Each Australian state and territory provides specific gambling help services tailored to local needs. These services often include face-to-face counselling and support groups.

== Financial Counselling ==
Financial counselling is available to assist individuals in managing their finances and addressing gambling-related financial issues. This service is crucial for those who have experienced financial harm due to gambling.

== Family Support ==
Support services extend to family members affected by a loved one's gambling. These services aim to provide emotional support and strategies to cope with the impacts of gambling on family dynamics.

== See Also ==
* [[BetStop]]
* [[Responsible Gambling Tools]]
* [[Problem Gambling Warning Signs]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.gamblinghelponline.org.au Gambling Help Online]

[[Category:Consumer Protection]]