<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:21:27.320605
    Page: Gambling Advertising Restrictions
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Gambling advertising restrictions in Australia are governed by a combination of federal and state legislation, aimed at minimizing the exposure of gambling promotions to vulnerable populations, particularly children. These restrictions are primarily enforced through the Broadcasting Services Act 1992 and are overseen by the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA).

== Broadcasting Services Act Restrictions ==
The Broadcasting Services Act 1992 provides the legislative framework for regulating gambling advertisements on television and radio. It imposes strict guidelines to ensure that gambling advertisements do not target minors and are broadcast at appropriate times.

== Live Sport Advertising Ban ==
The National Consumer Protection Framework (NCPF) includes Measure 6, which prohibits gambling advertisements during live sports broadcasts between 5:00 AM and 8:30 PM. This measure is intended to reduce the exposure of gambling promotions during times when children are likely to be watching.

== Time-of-Day Restrictions ==
Gambling advertisements are subject to time-of-day restrictions, which limit their broadcast during certain hours. These restrictions are designed to prevent gambling promotions from being aired during times when children are most likely to be part of the audience.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Time-of-Day Restrictions for Gambling Advertisements
! Time Period !! Restriction
|-
| 5:00 AM - 8:30 PM || No gambling ads during live sports broadcasts
|-
| 6:00 AM - 8:30 AM || No gambling ads on weekdays
|-
| 6:00 AM - 8:30 AM || No gambling ads on weekends and public holidays
|}

== Children's Programming Restrictions ==
Gambling advertisements are prohibited during programs that are primarily aimed at children. This restriction ensures that children are not exposed to gambling promotions during their viewing of children's content.

== Social Media Advertising ==
Gambling advertising on social media platforms is subject to the same restrictions as traditional media. Advertisers must ensure that their content is not directed at minors and complies with all relevant advertising standards.

== Influencer Marketing ==
Influencer marketing involving gambling products must adhere to the same regulations as other forms of advertising. Influencers are required to disclose any partnerships with gambling companies and ensure that their content does not target underage audiences.

== State-Specific Rules ==
In addition to federal regulations, individual states and territories may impose additional restrictions on gambling advertising. These rules can vary significantly and are enforced by state regulatory bodies.

== ACMA Enforcement ==
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) is responsible for enforcing gambling advertising restrictions. The ACMA monitors compliance and has the authority to impose penalties for breaches of the regulations.

== See Also ==
* [[Broadcasting Services Act 1992]]
* [[NCPF Measure 6 - Live Sport Advertising Ban]]
* [[ACMA]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority]
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2018C00410 Broadcasting Services Act 1992]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]