<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:19:10.766992
    Page: In-Play Betting Restrictions
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
'''In-Play Betting Restrictions''' refer to the legal limitations imposed on betting activities conducted during live sporting events in Australia. Under current regulations, online in-play betting is prohibited, while telephone in-play betting is permitted. These rules are primarily aimed at harm minimisation and maintaining the integrity of sports.

== Online In-Play Betting Prohibition ==
The prohibition of online in-play betting in Australia is governed by the [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]. This legislation restricts the offering of real-time betting services over the internet to prevent problem gambling and protect consumers.

== Telephone In-Play Betting ==
While online in-play betting is restricted, Australian law allows for in-play betting via telephone. This exception is intended to provide a controlled environment where operators can monitor and manage betting activities more effectively.

== Policy Rationale ==
The primary rationale behind these restrictions is harm minimisation. By limiting the immediacy and accessibility of in-play betting, regulators aim to reduce the potential for impulsive gambling and associated harms.

== Click-to-Call Workarounds ==
Operators have developed "click-to-call" systems as a workaround to the online in-play betting prohibition. These systems allow bettors to place in-play bets by initiating a call through an online platform, effectively complying with the telephone betting requirement.

== Enforcement Challenges ==
Enforcing in-play betting restrictions poses significant challenges. The rise of digital platforms and international operators complicates regulatory oversight, making it difficult to monitor and enforce compliance effectively.

== International Comparison ==
Internationally, in-play betting regulations vary. For example, the United Kingdom permits online in-play betting, while other jurisdictions, like the United States, have a mix of restrictions depending on state laws.

== Reform Proposals ==
There have been calls for reform to address the challenges and inconsistencies in current regulations. Proposals include tightening enforcement mechanisms, revisiting the click-to-call loophole, and considering the potential benefits of regulated online in-play betting.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ In-Play Betting Regulations by Country
! Country !! Online In-Play Betting !! Telephone In-Play Betting
|-
| Australia || Prohibited || Permitted
|-
| United Kingdom || Permitted || Permitted
|-
| United States || Varies by state || Varies by state
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[Sports Betting]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2017C00323 Interactive Gambling Act 2001 - Federal Register of Legislation]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/online-gambling Australian Communications and Media Authority - Online Gambling]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]