<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:18:18.112484
    Page: Interactive Gambling Act 2001
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The '''Interactive Gambling Act 2001''' (Act No. 84 of 2001) is the primary federal legislation that governs online gambling activities in Australia. The Act aims to protect Australians from the harmful effects of online gambling by prohibiting certain interactive gambling services and regulating others. It commenced on 11 July 2001 and is administered by the Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development, Communications and the Arts, with enforcement carried out by the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA).

== Key Provisions ==
The Interactive Gambling Act 2001 outlines the framework for regulating online gambling services in Australia. It includes provisions for prohibited and permitted services, penalties for non-compliance, and powers for website blocking.

=== Prohibited Services ===
The Act prohibits the provision of certain interactive gambling services to Australian residents. This includes online casinos, poker, and other games of chance that are not specifically exempted.

=== Permitted Services ===
Permitted services under the Act include online wagering on sports and racing, provided they are offered by licensed operators. Lotteries and certain other gambling activities may also be permitted under specific conditions.

=== Penalties ===
The Act prescribes significant penalties for breaches of its provisions. Individuals may face penalties of up to 2,000 penalty units, while corporations may incur penalties of up to 10,000 penalty units.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Penalties under the Interactive Gambling Act 2001
! Entity !! Maximum Penalty Units
|-
| Individuals || 2,000
|-
| Corporations || 10,000
|}

=== 2017 Amendment ===
In 2017, the Act was amended to enhance consumer protection measures and strengthen enforcement capabilities. This included the introduction of website blocking powers, allowing ACMA to request internet service providers to block access to illegal gambling websites.

== Website Blocking Powers ==
The 2017 amendment granted ACMA the authority to enforce website blocking of illegal offshore gambling services. This measure aims to protect Australian consumers by restricting access to unregulated and potentially harmful gambling sites.

== See Also ==
* [[ACMA]]
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]
* [[BetStop]]
* [[Prohibited Interactive Gambling Services]]
* [[Permitted Gambling Services]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/C2004A00896/latest Federal Register of Legislation]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/interactive-gambling ACMA - Interactive Gambling]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]