<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:18:29.688589
    Page: Interactive Gambling Act 2001/Legislative History
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The '''Interactive Gambling Act 2001''' (IGA) is a key piece of legislation in Australia aimed at regulating online gambling services. Enacted to protect consumers and maintain the integrity of the gambling industry, the Act has undergone several amendments to address evolving technological and societal trends.

== Original 2001 Act ==
The Interactive Gambling Act 2001 was introduced to address the burgeoning online gambling market. The primary policy rationale was to minimize the adverse effects of gambling on the community and to ensure that online gambling services were provided responsibly. The Act prohibited the provision of certain interactive gambling services to Australian residents and sought to protect consumers from the potential harms of online gambling.

== 2017 Amendment Act ==
The Interactive Gambling Amendment Act 2017 brought significant changes to the original legislation. This amendment aimed to strengthen the enforcement of the IGA and to close loopholes that had been exploited since the Act's inception.

=== Major Changes ===
* The prohibition of online poker and in-play sports betting services was explicitly added.
* Introduction of civil penalty provisions for operators found to be in breach of the Act.
* Expansion of the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA)'s enforcement powers, allowing it to issue formal warnings and infringement notices.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Major Amendments to the Interactive Gambling Act
! Year !! Amendment !! Key Changes
|-
| 2001 || Original Act || Prohibition of certain online gambling services
|-
| 2017 || Amendment Act || Online poker prohibition, civil penalties, expanded ACMA powers
|-
| 2019 || Technical Amendments || Clarifications and minor adjustments to existing provisions
|}

== 2019 Technical Amendments ==
In 2019, further technical amendments were made to the IGA. These amendments were primarily focused on clarifying existing provisions and making minor adjustments to ensure the legislation remained effective and relevant.

== Future Reform Proposals ==
There have been ongoing discussions regarding future reforms to the Interactive Gambling Act. Proposed reforms aim to further enhance consumer protections, address emerging technologies, and ensure that the regulatory framework remains robust in the face of new challenges.

== See Also ==
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[Interactive Gambling Amendment Act 2017]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2017A00061 Interactive Gambling Amendment Act 2017]
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019C00180 Interactive Gambling Act 2001 - Compilation]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]