<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:19:20.945509
    Page: Interactive Gambling Act Penalties
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The '''Interactive Gambling Act Penalties''' refer to the civil and criminal penalties imposed under the Interactive Gambling Act 2001 (IGA) for breaches of its provisions. The Act is designed to regulate interactive gambling services and includes a range of enforcement measures to ensure compliance.

== Civil Penalty Provisions ==
Part 7A of the Interactive Gambling Act 2001 outlines the civil penalty provisions applicable to individuals and corporations that contravene the Act. These provisions allow for significant financial penalties to be imposed.

== Maximum Penalties ==
The maximum penalties under the IGA are as follows:
* '''Individuals''': Up to 2,000 penalty units
* '''Corporations''': Up to 10,000 penalty units

The value of a penalty unit is subject to change, and as of 2024, it is set at $313.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Maximum Penalties under the IGA
! Entity !! Maximum Penalty Units !! Penalty Unit Value (2024) !! Maximum Monetary Penalty
|-
| Individuals || 2,000 || $313 || $626,000
|-
| Corporations || 10,000 || $313 || $3,130,000
|}

== Criminal Offences ==
The IGA also includes provisions for criminal offences, particularly for repeat breaches of the Act. These offences can result in more severe penalties, including imprisonment.

== Injunction Powers ==
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) has the power to seek injunctions to prevent ongoing or future breaches of the IGA. This can include restraining orders against individuals or entities.

== Infringement Notices ==
Infringement notices can be issued by the ACMA for certain breaches of the IGA. These notices provide an alternative to court proceedings and allow for quicker resolution of minor breaches.

== Notable Enforcement Cases ==
Several notable enforcement cases have been pursued under the IGA, highlighting the ACMA's commitment to enforcing the Act. These cases often involve significant penalties and serve as a deterrent to potential violators.

== See Also ==
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[ACMA Enforcement Actions]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2023C00112 Interactive Gambling Act 2001 - Federal Register of Legislation]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/interactive-gambling ACMA Interactive Gambling Information]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]