<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:18:40.619497
    Page: Interactive Gambling Amendment Act 2017
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The '''Interactive Gambling Amendment Act 2017''' is a significant legislative reform to the [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]] in Australia, aimed at strengthening the regulatory framework for online gambling. The amendments, which commenced on 13 September 2017, introduced several key measures including the prohibition of online poker, the establishment of a civil penalty regime, and enhanced enforcement powers for the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA).

== Key Provisions ==

=== Commencement ===
The Interactive Gambling Amendment Act 2017 came into effect on 13 September 2017, marking a pivotal change in the regulation of online gambling services in Australia.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Key Dates
|-
! Event !! Date
|-
| Royal Assent || 16 August 2017
|-
| Commencement || 13 September 2017
|}

=== Prohibition of Online Poker ===
The Act explicitly prohibits online poker, a form of player versus player gambling, as part of its broader effort to restrict interactive gambling services that are not licensed in Australia.

=== Civil Penalty Regime ===
A new civil penalty regime was introduced, allowing for significant fines and penalties to be imposed on operators who provide or advertise prohibited interactive gambling services to Australians.

=== ACMA Enforcement Powers ===
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) was granted enhanced powers, including the ability to block websites that offer illegal gambling services to Australians.

=== National Self-Exclusion Register ===
The Act mandated the creation of a national self-exclusion register, which later became known as [[BetStop]]. This register allows individuals to self-exclude from all licensed interactive gambling services in Australia.

=== Enhanced Definition of Prohibited Services ===
The definition of prohibited interactive gambling services was expanded to include any unlicensed online gambling services, thereby closing loopholes that previously existed.

=== Advertising Restrictions ===
The Act imposed stricter advertising restrictions on gambling services, particularly those targeting Australian consumers, to minimize exposure and potential harm.

== See Also ==
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[BetStop]]
* [[ACMA]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2017A00060 Interactive Gambling Amendment Act 2017 - Federal Register of Legislation]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA)]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]