<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:38:12.373580
    Page: Keno
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Keno is a popular gambling game in Australia, where players select numbers from a set range, and winnings are determined by how many of the chosen numbers match those drawn by the operator. It is a game of chance similar to a lottery, offering various ways to play and win.

== How Keno Works ==
Keno involves players choosing a set of numbers, typically between 1 and 20, from a pool of 80. During each game, a random draw of 20 numbers is conducted. Players win prizes based on how many of their selected numbers match the drawn numbers, with payouts varying according to the number of matches and the amount wagered.

== Where to Play ==
Keno is widely available in Australia and can be played in various venues:
* Clubs and hotels: Many licensed clubs and hotels offer Keno games, providing a social environment for players.
* Online: Keno can also be played online through licensed operators, allowing for convenient access from anywhere within Australia.

== Operators ==
The primary operators of Keno in Australia include:
* '''Tabcorp Keno''': A major provider of Keno games, operating in multiple states and territories.
* '''Club Keno''': Offered in various clubs, providing a localized version of the game.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Major Keno Operators in Australia
! Operator !! Regions Served !! Online Availability
|-
| Tabcorp Keno || New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia || Yes
|-
| Club Keno || Various clubs across Australia || No
|}

== Legal Status ==
Keno is a legal form of gambling in Australia, regulated by state and territory governments. Each jurisdiction has its own regulatory body that oversees the operation of Keno games, ensuring compliance with local laws and regulations.

== See Also ==
* [[Lotteries]]
* [[Gambling Types in Australia]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.tabcorp.com.au/ Tabcorp Official Website]
* [https://www.australia.gov.au/ Australian Government - Gambling Regulation]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]