<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:22:01.720539
    Page: Know Your Customer Requirements
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
''Know Your Customer'' (KYC) requirements are a set of identity verification protocols that gambling operators in Australia must adhere to in order to comply with federal legislation. These requirements are designed to prevent money laundering and ensure that gambling activities are conducted legally and ethically.

== Customer Identification Program (CIP) ==
The Customer Identification Program is a fundamental component of KYC requirements. It mandates that gambling operators collect and verify the identity of their customers before allowing them to engage in gambling activities. This process helps to ensure that operators are aware of who their customers are and can monitor their activities for any suspicious behavior.

== Verification Before Gambling Permitted ==
Gambling operators must verify the identity of their customers before they are permitted to gamble. This verification process typically involves the collection of personal information and the confirmation of identity through acceptable documents or electronic means.

== Acceptable Identity Documents ==
The following are considered acceptable identity documents for KYC verification:
* Passport
* Driver's License
* National Identity Card
* Birth Certificate

== Electronic Verification ==
In addition to physical documents, electronic verification methods can be used to confirm a customer's identity. This may involve cross-referencing customer information with databases from credit agencies or government records.

== Enhanced Due Diligence for High-Risk Customers ==
For customers deemed high-risk, such as those involved in large transactions or from jurisdictions with lax anti-money laundering regulations, enhanced due diligence measures are required. This may include additional identity verification steps and closer monitoring of their gambling activities.

== Ongoing Customer Due Diligence ==
Ongoing due diligence involves the continuous monitoring of customer activities to detect any changes in behavior that may indicate money laundering or other illegal activities. This is an essential part of maintaining compliance with KYC requirements.

== PEP Screening ==
Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) are individuals who hold prominent public positions and may be at higher risk for involvement in corruption or money laundering. Gambling operators must screen customers to identify PEPs and apply enhanced due diligence measures as necessary.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ KYC Requirements Overview
! Requirement !! Description
|-
| Customer Identification Program || Collect and verify customer identity before gambling
|-
| Verification Methods || Use of acceptable documents or electronic verification
|-
| Enhanced Due Diligence || Additional measures for high-risk customers
|-
| Ongoing Monitoring || Continuous assessment of customer activities
|-
| PEP Screening || Identification and monitoring of politically exposed persons
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Anti-Money Laundering and Gambling]]
* [[AUSTRAC]]
* [[NCPF Measure 8 - Customer Verification]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.austrac.gov.au/ Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC)]
* [https://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/ Department of Home Affairs]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]