<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:37:29.639376
    Page: Loot Boxes
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Loot boxes are virtual items in video games that contain randomised rewards. They are often purchased with real money and have sparked debate over whether they constitute a form of gambling. In Australia, loot boxes are currently not regulated as gambling, although there have been discussions and inquiries into their legal status and potential regulation.

== What are Loot Boxes ==
Loot boxes are features in video games that players can buy or earn. They contain randomised items such as weapons, skins, or other in-game enhancements. The contents of a loot box are typically unknown until it is opened, which has led to comparisons with gambling.

== Current Legal Status in Australia ==
As of the latest update, loot boxes are not classified as gambling under Australian law. The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) has not regulated them as such, primarily because they do not meet the legal definition of gambling, which requires the possibility of winning money or something of monetary value.

== Senate Inquiry Findings ==
In 2018, the Australian Senate conducted an inquiry into loot boxes. The inquiry concluded that while loot boxes share some characteristics with gambling, they do not currently meet the legal definition. The inquiry recommended further research into the potential harms of loot boxes, particularly concerning minors.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Senate Inquiry Recommendations
! Recommendation
! Description
|-
| Further Research
| Conduct more studies on the impact of loot boxes on young people.
|-
| Consumer Protection
| Enhance consumer protection measures and awareness.
|}

== International Approaches ==
Different countries have taken varied approaches to regulating loot boxes. For example, Belgium and the Netherlands have classified loot boxes as gambling and have banned their sale. Other countries, like the United States, have yet to implement federal regulations, although some states have proposed legislation.

== Reform Proposals ==
There have been calls for reform in Australia, including proposals to classify loot boxes as gambling and to introduce age restrictions. Advocates for reform argue that loot boxes can lead to gambling-like behaviours, especially among younger players.

== Consumer Advice ==
Consumers are advised to be aware of the potential risks associated with loot boxes. Parents are encouraged to monitor their children's gaming activities and to use parental controls to limit in-game purchases. It is also recommended to educate young players about the nature of loot boxes and the importance of responsible spending.

== See Also ==
* [[Esports Betting]]
* [[Skin Gambling]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au Australian Communications and Media Authority]
* [https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary_Business/Committees/Senate/Environment_and_Communications/Lootboxes Senate Inquiry into Loot Boxes]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]