<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:34:33.990560
    Page: Lotteries
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Lottery gambling in Australia is a popular form of gambling that is legally permitted and regulated by state and territory governments. Lotteries in Australia are typically state-licensed, with major operators including The Lott, Lotterywest, and SA Lotteries. These operators offer a variety of lottery games such as Powerball, Oz Lotto, and Saturday Lotto.

== Legal Status ==
In Australia, lotteries are legal and operate under state and territory licenses. Each state has its own regulatory framework that governs the operation of lotteries, ensuring they are conducted fairly and transparently. The primary operators are state-owned or state-licensed entities.

== Major Operators ==
=== The Lott ===
The Lott is the primary lottery operator in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, the Australian Capital Territory, and the Northern Territory. It offers a range of lottery products including Powerball, Oz Lotto, and Saturday Lotto.

=== Lotterywest ===
Lotterywest operates in Western Australia and is unique as it is government-owned. Profits from Lotterywest are distributed to various community and charitable causes within the state.

=== SA Lotteries ===
SA Lotteries is the licensed lottery operator in South Australia, providing similar lottery products as The Lott and Lotterywest.

== Major Games ==
=== Powerball ===
Powerball is a popular lottery game where players select numbers from two separate pools. It offers large jackpots and is known for its high prize amounts.

=== Oz Lotto ===
Oz Lotto is a national lottery game played across Australia. Players choose numbers from a single pool, and the game is known for its significant jackpots.

=== Saturday Lotto ===
Saturday Lotto, also known as TattsLotto in some regions, is a weekly lottery draw that offers moderate jackpots and is popular for its simplicity.

== How to Play ==
To play a lottery game, participants purchase a ticket and select a set of numbers. The winning numbers are drawn at random, and prizes are awarded based on the number of matches between the player's numbers and the drawn numbers. Each game has its own rules regarding the number of selections and prize divisions.

== Odds and Prizes ==
{| class="wikitable"
|+ Odds and Prizes for Major Lottery Games
|-
! Game !! Odds of Winning Jackpot !! Typical Jackpot Prize
|-
| Powerball || 1 in 134,490,400 || $3 million to $100 million+
|-
| Oz Lotto || 1 in 45,379,620 || $2 million to $50 million+
|-
| Saturday Lotto || 1 in 8,145,060 || $4 million
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Powerball]]
* [[Oz Lotto]]
* [[The Lott]]

== External Links ==
* [https://thelott.com/ The Lott Official Website]
* [https://www.lotterywest.wa.gov.au/ Lotterywest Official Website]
* [https://www.salotteries.com.au/ SA Lotteries Official Website]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]