<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:27:51.393714
    Page: Malta Gaming Authority
    Category: Licensing
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The Malta Gaming Authority (MGA) is the regulatory body responsible for the governance of all gaming activities in Malta. Established to ensure fairness, transparency, and integrity in the gaming sector, the MGA provides a robust framework for licensing and regulation, making it a reputable authority within European markets. It is important to note that the MGA does not authorise the provision of gambling services to Australian residents.

== Overview ==
The Malta Gaming Authority was established in 2001 and has since become one of the most respected gaming regulators in the world. The MGA is responsible for regulating various sectors of the gaming industry, including online gaming, land-based casinos, commercial bingo games, and gaming devices. The authority's primary objective is to ensure that gaming is fair and transparent to the players, prevent crime and corruption, and protect minors and vulnerable persons.

== Types of Licences ==
The MGA offers several types of licences to cater to different gaming operations. These licences are designed to cover a wide range of gaming activities and ensure compliance with Maltese law.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Types of Licences Issued by the Malta Gaming Authority
! Licence Type !! Description
|-
| B2C Gaming Service Licence || Allows operators to offer gaming services directly to consumers.
|-
| B2B Critical Gaming Supply Licence || Permits companies to provide software, platforms, and other critical gaming supplies to licensed operators.
|-
| B2B Non-Critical Gaming Supply Licence || Covers the provision of non-critical services, such as marketing and affiliate services.
|}

== Legitimacy in European Markets ==
The MGA is widely recognised across Europe for its stringent regulatory standards and commitment to maintaining a safe and fair gaming environment. Operators licensed by the MGA are subject to rigorous checks and ongoing compliance requirements, which enhances their credibility and trustworthiness in the European markets.

== See Also ==
* [[International Gambling Licences]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.mga.org.mt/ Official Malta Gaming Authority Website]

[[Category:Licensing]]