<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:19:33.574569
    Page: National Consumer Protection Framework
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The '''National Consumer Protection Framework''' (NCPF) is a set of ten nationally consistent harm minimisation measures designed to protect consumers engaging in online wagering in Australia. Agreed upon by Commonwealth, state, and territory ministers, the framework aims to enhance consumer protection and reduce gambling-related harm through a series of measures implemented between 2018 and 2023. It applies to all licensed Australian online wagering operators.

== Overview ==
The NCPF was established to provide a unified approach to consumer protection across all Australian jurisdictions. It focuses on reducing the risks associated with online gambling by implementing a series of measures that operators must adhere to.

== Implementation Timeline ==
The implementation of the NCPF measures occurred over a five-year period from 2018 to 2023. This phased approach allowed for the gradual introduction of measures and provided time for operators to comply with new regulations.

== The 10 Measures ==
The NCPF consists of the following ten measures:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Measure Number !! Description
|-
| 1 || National Self-Exclusion Register
|-
| 2 || Voluntary Pre-Commitment
|-
| 3 || Consistent Gambling Messaging
|-
| 4 || Staff Training in Responsible Gambling
|-
| 5 || Prohibition of Lines of Credit
|-
| 6 || Account Closure Procedures
|-
| 7 || Activity Statements for Players
|-
| 8 || Restrictions on Advertising
|-
| 9 || Improved Complaint Handling
|-
| 10 || Nationally Consistent Responsible Gambling Messaging
|}

== Application ==
The measures apply to all licensed online wagering operators in Australia. These operators are required to implement the measures as part of their licensing conditions, ensuring a consistent approach to consumer protection across the country.

== Enforcement Mechanisms ==
Enforcement of the NCPF is carried out by relevant regulatory bodies in each state and territory. Operators found to be non-compliant with the measures may face penalties, including fines or suspension of their licenses.

== Review and Evaluation ==
The NCPF includes provisions for regular review and evaluation to assess the effectiveness of the measures in reducing gambling-related harm. These reviews ensure that the framework remains relevant and effective in protecting consumers.

== See Also ==
* [[BetStop]]
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[NCPF Measure 1 - National Self-Exclusion]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.dss.gov.au/communities-and-vulnerable-people/programmes-services/gambling/national-consumer-protection-framework-for-online-wagering DSS - NCPF Information]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]