<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:20:02.881557
    Page: NCPF Measure 3 - Payday Lending Restrictions
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The "NCPF Measure 3 - Payday Lending Restrictions" is a regulatory measure under the National Consumer Protection Framework (NCPF) aimed at prohibiting payday lenders from providing loans to individuals for the purpose of gambling. This measure is part of a broader initiative to protect consumers from financial harm associated with gambling-related debt.

== Overview ==
The NCPF Measure 3 specifically targets the practice of payday lending to individuals who intend to use the funds for gambling. The measure is designed to prevent the accumulation of high-interest debt that can exacerbate financial difficulties for gamblers. By restricting access to payday loans for gambling purposes, the measure seeks to mitigate the risk of financial harm and promote responsible lending practices.

== Enforcement ==
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) is the primary regulatory body responsible for enforcing the restrictions outlined in NCPF Measure 3. ASIC's role includes monitoring compliance among payday lenders, investigating potential breaches, and taking enforcement action where necessary. This enforcement is crucial to ensuring that payday lenders adhere to the regulations and that consumers are protected from predatory lending practices.

== Industry Codes of Conduct ==
In addition to regulatory enforcement, industry codes of conduct play a significant role in supporting the objectives of NCPF Measure 3. These codes are developed in collaboration with industry stakeholders and outline best practices for responsible lending. Compliance with these codes is encouraged to foster a culture of ethical lending and consumer protection within the payday lending industry.

== Key Facts ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Aspect !! Details
|-
| Regulatory Body || Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC)
|-
| Implementation Date || 2019
|-
| Objective || Prohibit payday loans for gambling purposes
|-
| Related Framework || National Consumer Protection Framework (NCPF)
|}

== See Also ==
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]

== External Links ==
* [https://asic.gov.au/for-consumers/financial-products/borrowing-money/payday-lending/ ASIC - Payday Lending]
* [https://www.accc.gov.au/business/industry-codes/industry-codes-of-conduct Australian Competition & Consumer Commission - Industry Codes of Conduct]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]