<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:21:03.079235
    Page: NCPF Measure 9 - Opt-Out of Marketing
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
'''NCPF Measure 9 - Opt-Out of Marketing''' is a provision under the National Consumer Protection Framework (NCPF) for online wagering in Australia. It mandates that all licensed gambling operators provide customers with a straightforward mechanism to opt out of receiving direct marketing communications related to gambling services.

== Opt-Out Mechanism ==
The measure requires that gambling operators implement an easy and accessible opt-out mechanism for customers. This mechanism must be clearly communicated and allow customers to withdraw their consent to receive marketing materials at any time.

== Scope of Marketing Covered ==
The opt-out provision applies to all forms of direct marketing, including but not limited to:
* Emails
* SMS messages
* Phone calls
* Postal mail

== Timeframe for Implementation ==
The measure stipulates that gambling operators must comply with the opt-out requirements within a specified timeframe. The implementation deadline was set for 30 June 2022, ensuring that all operators provide the necessary opt-out options to their customers.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Implementation Details
! Aspect !! Requirement
|-
| Opt-Out Mechanism || Must be easy to access and use
|-
| Marketing Channels || Includes emails, SMS, phone calls, and postal mail
|-
| Compliance Deadline || 30 June 2022
|}

== Third-Party Marketing ==
Operators are also responsible for ensuring that any third-party marketing affiliates adhere to the opt-out requests of customers. This means that once a customer opts out, their information should not be used for marketing purposes by any third-party entities associated with the gambling operator.

== See Also ==
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]
* [[Gambling Advertising Restrictions]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.dss.gov.au/ Department of Social Services - National Consumer Protection Framework]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]