<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:20:42.651059
    Page: NCPF Measure 7 - Staff Training Requirements
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
'''NCPF Measure 7 - Staff Training Requirements''' is a component of the National Consumer Protection Framework (NCPF) for online wagering in Australia. It mandates comprehensive training for staff of wagering operators to ensure responsible gambling practices, effective customer interaction, and the identification of problem gambling behaviors.

== Responsible Gambling Training Requirements ==
Under NCPF Measure 7, all staff members of wagering operators must undergo training focused on responsible gambling. This training aims to equip staff with the knowledge and skills necessary to promote safe gambling practices and to support customers in making informed decisions.

== Customer Interaction Training ==
The measure includes specific training on customer interaction, emphasizing the importance of effective communication with customers. Staff are trained to engage with customers in a manner that encourages responsible gambling and provides support to those who may be experiencing difficulties.

== Identifying Problem Gambling ==
A critical component of the training is the ability to identify signs of problem gambling. Staff are educated on the behavioral indicators of gambling-related harm and the appropriate steps to take when such signs are observed.

== Training Frequency and Certification ==
Staff training under NCPF Measure 7 must be conducted regularly to ensure that all personnel are up-to-date with the latest responsible gambling practices. Certification is required upon completion of the training, and operators must maintain records of staff training to demonstrate compliance.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Staff Training Requirements
! Requirement !! Description !! Frequency
|-
| Responsible Gambling Training || Training on promoting safe gambling practices || Annually
|-
| Customer Interaction Training || Training on effective communication with customers || Annually
|-
| Identifying Problem Gambling || Training on recognizing signs of gambling harm || Annually
|-
| Certification || Proof of training completion || Upon completion
|}

== See Also ==
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]
* [[Responsible Gambling Tools]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.dss.gov.au/ Department of Social Services - National Consumer Protection Framework]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority - Online Gambling]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]