<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:19:44.146463
    Page: NCPF Measure 1 - National Self-Exclusion Register
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The '''NCPF Measure 1 - National Self-Exclusion Register''' is a key component of the National Consumer Protection Framework for Online Wagering in Australia. It mandates the establishment of a national self-exclusion register, known as BetStop, which allows individuals to exclude themselves from all licensed interactive wagering services across the country.

== National Register Requirement ==
The National Self-Exclusion Register is designed to provide a centralized system for individuals who wish to self-exclude from online gambling services. This initiative aims to offer a consistent and effective tool for harm minimization across all states and territories in Australia.

== Operator Obligations ==
Under the NCPF Measure 1, all licensed wagering operators are required to:
* Check the national register before allowing a customer to open an account or place a bet.
* Ensure that individuals on the register do not receive marketing materials.
* Implement systems to prevent self-excluded individuals from accessing their services.

== Implementation via BetStop ==
The implementation of the National Self-Exclusion Register is facilitated through BetStop, which became operational in August 2023. BetStop serves as the central platform for managing self-exclusion requests and ensuring compliance by wagering operators.

== Minimum Exclusion Periods ==
Individuals who register with BetStop can choose exclusion periods ranging from a minimum of three months to a lifetime ban. This flexibility allows individuals to tailor the exclusion period to their personal needs and circumstances.

== Penalties for Non-Compliance ==
Wagering operators who fail to comply with the requirements of the National Self-Exclusion Register may face significant penalties. These penalties are enforced to ensure adherence to the framework and to protect individuals from gambling-related harm.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Key Facts about the National Self-Exclusion Register
! Aspect !! Details
|-
| Implementation Date || August 2023
|-
| Minimum Exclusion Period || 3 months
|-
| Maximum Exclusion Period || Lifetime
|-
| Penalty for Non-Compliance || Varies by jurisdiction
|}

== See Also ==
* [[BetStop]]
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.dss.gov.au/ Department of Social Services - National Consumer Protection Framework]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority - BetStop]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]