<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:20:12.068523
    Page: NCPF Measure 4 - Consistent Gambling Messaging
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The "NCPF Measure 4 - Consistent Gambling Messaging" is a component of the National Consumer Protection Framework (NCPF) in Australia, aimed at standardising responsible gambling messages across all platforms. This measure ensures that all gambling-related communications include clear and consistent messaging to promote responsible gambling and provide support resources.

== Required Messaging Format ==
Under NCPF Measure 4, all gambling operators are required to use a standardised format for responsible gambling messages. These messages must be clear, concise, and prominently displayed in all gambling-related communications, including advertisements and promotions.

== Gambling Help Number ==
A critical component of the messaging is the inclusion of the Gambling Help number, which is 1800 858 858. This number provides access to free and confidential support services for individuals affected by gambling.

== Placement Requirements ==
The placement of responsible gambling messages is regulated to ensure maximum visibility and impact. Messages must be:
* Displayed in a prominent position in all gambling advertisements.
* Included in digital and print media.
* Visible on gambling websites and applications.

== Review of Message Effectiveness ==
The effectiveness of the consistent gambling messaging is subject to regular review. These reviews assess whether the messages are achieving their intended purpose of promoting responsible gambling and reducing gambling-related harm. The results of these reviews inform any necessary adjustments to the messaging strategy.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ NCPF Measure 4 Key Details
! Aspect !! Requirement
|-
| Messaging Format || Standardised and consistent
|-
| Help Number || 1800 858 858
|-
| Placement || Prominent in all communications
|-
| Review || Regular effectiveness assessments
|}

== See Also ==
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]
* [[Gambling Advertising Restrictions]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.dss.gov.au/ Department of Social Services - National Consumer Protection Framework]
* [https://www.gamblinghelponline.org.au/ Gambling Help Online]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]