<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T12:12:36.243320
    Page: Online Gambling
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Online gambling in Australia is regulated under a framework that permits certain forms of gambling while prohibiting others. The legal landscape is primarily governed by the Interactive Gambling Act 2001, which outlines the types of online gambling services that are permitted and those that are prohibited. This legislation aims to protect consumers and maintain the integrity of the gambling industry.

== Legal Status Overview ==
The legal status of online gambling in Australia is a mix of permitted and prohibited activities. The Interactive Gambling Act 2001 is the primary legislation that dictates what is legal and illegal.

== What's LEGAL Online ==
Certain forms of online gambling are permitted in Australia, provided they are offered by licensed operators. These include:
* Sports betting (pre-match) with licensed operators
* Racing betting with licensed operators
* Lotteries through state providers
* Betting exchanges, such as Betfair

== What's PROHIBITED Online ==
The following online gambling activities are prohibited under Australian law:
* Online casino games, including pokies, roulette, and blackjack
* Online poker (player vs player)
* In-play sports betting via the internet (in-play betting is allowed by phone)

== Interactive Gambling Act 2001 ==
The Interactive Gambling Act 2001 is the cornerstone of online gambling regulation in Australia. It prohibits the provision of certain interactive gambling services to Australian residents and aims to protect consumers from the potential harms of online gambling.

== Licensed Australian Operators vs Illegal Offshore Sites ==
Australian consumers are encouraged to use services provided by licensed Australian operators. These operators are subject to strict regulatory oversight, ensuring consumer protection and fair play. In contrast, illegal offshore sites operate outside Australian law, offering no consumer protection or dispute resolution mechanisms.

== Risks of Using Offshore Sites ==
Using illegal offshore gambling sites poses significant risks to consumers, including:
* Lack of consumer protection
* No dispute resolution processes
* Potential for fraud and unfair practices

== Consumer Protections for Legal Online Gambling ==
Legal online gambling services in Australia are required to implement consumer protection measures, including responsible gambling tools and support services. BetStop is a national self-exclusion register that allows individuals to exclude themselves from all licensed interactive wagering services.

== BetStop and Responsible Gambling Tools ==
BetStop is a key component of Australia's responsible gambling framework, providing a self-exclusion option for consumers. Licensed operators are also required to offer tools that help consumers manage their gambling activities responsibly.

== See Also ==
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[Prohibited Interactive Gambling Services]]
* [[Permitted Gambling Services]]
* [[Illegal Offshore Gambling]]
* [[Northern Territory Licensing]]
* [[BetStop]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/online-gambling ACMA - Online Gambling]
* [https://www.betstop.gov.au BetStop]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]