<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:34:52.759772
    Page: Oz Lotto
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Oz Lotto is a national lottery game in Australia, operated by the Tatts Group under the brand 'The Lott'. It was introduced in 1994 and is known for offering large jackpots. The game is drawn weekly on Tuesdays and is one of the most popular lottery games in the country.

== How to Play ==
Players select seven numbers from a pool of 1 to 47. During the draw, seven winning numbers and two supplementary numbers are drawn. To win the jackpot, a player must match all seven main numbers.

== Draw Schedule ==
Oz Lotto draws take place every Tuesday at approximately 8:30 PM AEST. Results are published shortly after the draw.

== Odds ==
The odds of winning the Oz Lotto jackpot, which requires matching all seven main numbers, are 1 in 45,379,620. The overall odds of winning any prize are approximately 1 in 55.

== Prize Divisions ==
Oz Lotto offers several prize divisions, with Division 1 being the jackpot. The table below outlines the prize divisions and the odds of winning each.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Oz Lotto Prize Divisions
! Division !! Numbers Matched !! Odds of Winning
|-
| Division 1 || 7 main numbers || 1 in 45,379,620
|-
| Division 2 || 6 main numbers + 1 supplementary || 1 in 3,241,401
|-
| Division 3 || 6 main numbers || 1 in 180,078
|-
| Division 4 || 5 main numbers + 1 supplementary || 1 in 29,602
|-
| Division 5 || 5 main numbers || 1 in 3,430
|-
| Division 6 || 4 main numbers || 1 in 154
|-
| Division 7 || 3 main numbers + 1 supplementary || 1 in 87
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Lotteries]]

== External Links ==
* [https://thelott.com/oz-lotto The Lott - Oz Lotto Official Site]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]