<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:18:59.447330
    Page: Permitted Gambling Services
    Category: Federal Legislation
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Permitted gambling services in Australia refer to those online gambling activities that are legally available to Australians, as regulated by federal and state legislation. These services include pre-match sports betting, horse racing, harness racing, greyhound racing betting, lotteries, keno, and betting exchanges. The Interactive Gambling Act 2001 provides the framework for what constitutes a legal gambling service, distinguishing between permitted and prohibited activities.

== Types of Permitted Gambling Services ==

=== Pre-match Sports Betting ===
Pre-match sports betting is allowed with operators who hold a valid license issued by an Australian state or territory. This includes betting on the outcome of sports events before they commence.

=== Racing Betting ===
Betting on horse racing, harness racing, and greyhound racing is permitted when conducted by licensed operators. These activities are regulated at both state and federal levels to ensure compliance with Australian law.

=== Lotteries ===
Lotteries that are operated under Australian law are permitted. These include national and state lotteries, which must be conducted by licensed providers.

=== Keno ===
Keno is a lottery-like gambling game that is permitted when conducted by licensed providers. It is typically available in casinos and online platforms that comply with state regulations.

=== Betting Exchanges ===
Betting exchanges, such as those operating under the Betfair model, are allowed in Australia. These platforms enable users to bet against each other rather than against a bookmaker, provided they are licensed.

== Excluded Wagering Service ==
Under section 8A of the Interactive Gambling Act 2001, an 'excluded wagering service' refers to certain types of wagering services that are not considered prohibited, such as those involving betting on horse racing or sports with licensed operators.

== Licensing Requirements ==
All operators offering permitted gambling services must obtain a license from the relevant state or territory authority. Licensing ensures that operators adhere to strict regulations designed to protect consumers and maintain the integrity of the gambling industry.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Licensing Authorities in Australia
|-
! State/Territory !! Licensing Authority
|-
| New South Wales || Liquor & Gaming NSW
|-
| Victoria || Victorian Commission for Gambling and Liquor Regulation
|-
| Queensland || Office of Liquor and Gaming Regulation
|-
| South Australia || Consumer and Business Services
|-
| Western Australia || Department of Local Government, Sport and Cultural Industries
|-
| Tasmania || Tasmanian Liquor and Gaming Commission
|-
| Northern Territory || Northern Territory Racing Commission
|-
| Australian Capital Territory || ACT Gambling and Racing Commission
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[Prohibited Interactive Gambling Services]]
* [[Northern Territory Licensing]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019C00201 Interactive Gambling Act 2001 - Federal Register of Legislation]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/online-gambling Australian Communications and Media Authority - Online Gambling]

[[Category:Federal Legislation]]