<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:29:41.541751
    Page: Poker Machine Technical Standards
    Category: Technical Standards
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Poker Machine Technical Standards in Australia refer to the specific technical requirements and regulations that govern the design, operation, and functionality of poker machines, also known as slot machines or electronic gaming machines, across various states and territories. These standards ensure the integrity, fairness, and safety of gaming machines.

== State-by-State Standards ==
Poker machine technical standards vary across Australian states and territories. Each jurisdiction has its own regulatory body that sets and enforces these standards to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ State-by-State Poker Machine Standards
! State/Territory !! Regulatory Body !! Key Standards
|-
| New South Wales || Liquor & Gaming NSW || Maximum bet $5, spin rate restrictions
|-
| Victoria || Victorian Commission for Gambling and Liquor Regulation || Maximum bet $5, display requirements
|-
| Queensland || Office of Liquor and Gaming Regulation || Maximum bet $5, note acceptor restrictions
|-
| South Australia || Consumer and Business Services || Maximum bet $5, jackpot requirements
|-
| Western Australia || Department of Racing, Gaming and Liquor || Limited poker machines, strict controls
|-
| Tasmania || Liquor and Gaming Branch || Maximum bet $5, prize limits
|-
| Northern Territory || Licensing NT || Maximum bet $5, spin rate restrictions
|-
| Australian Capital Territory || ACT Gambling and Racing Commission || Maximum bet $5, display requirements
|}

== Maximum Bet and Prize Limits ==
In most Australian states, the maximum bet for poker machines is set at $5. This limit is designed to minimize the potential for excessive gambling losses. Additionally, there are restrictions on the maximum prize that can be won on a single spin, which varies by jurisdiction.

== Spin Rate Restrictions ==
Spin rate restrictions are imposed to control the speed at which poker machines operate. These restrictions are intended to reduce the risk of problem gambling by limiting the frequency of plays.

== Display Requirements ==
Poker machines must adhere to specific display requirements, ensuring that all necessary information, such as game rules and payout percentages, is clearly visible to players. This transparency is crucial for maintaining fair play.

== Note Acceptor Restrictions ==
Restrictions on note acceptors are in place to control the amount of money that can be inserted into poker machines at one time. These restrictions help prevent large losses in a short period.

== Jackpot Requirements ==
Jackpot requirements dictate the conditions under which jackpots can be offered and won. These requirements ensure that jackpots are awarded fairly and transparently.

== See Also ==
* [[Return to Player]]
* [[Poker Machines]]
* [[State and Territory Regulators]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.liquorandgaming.nsw.gov.au/ Liquor & Gaming NSW]
* [https://www.vcglr.vic.gov.au/ Victorian Commission for Gambling and Liquor Regulation]
* [https://www.business.qld.gov.au/industries/hospitality-tourism-sport/liquor-gaming Office of Liquor and Gaming Regulation]
* [https://www.cbs.sa.gov.au/ Consumer and Business Services]
* [https://www.dlgsc.wa.gov.au/ Department of Racing, Gaming and Liquor]
* [https://www.treasury.tas.gov.au/liquor-and-gaming Liquor and Gaming Branch]
* [https://nt.gov.au/industry/gambling Licensing NT]
* [https://www.gamblingandracing.act.gov.au/ ACT Gambling and Racing Commission]

[[Category:Technical Standards]]