<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:34:44.283512
    Page: Powerball
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Powerball is a popular Australian lottery game that offers players the chance to win substantial cash prizes. Managed by [[The Lott]], Powerball is known for its large jackpots and is drawn every Thursday evening.

== How to Play ==
To play Powerball, participants select seven numbers from a pool of 35, and one Powerball number from a separate pool of 20. Players can choose their numbers manually or opt for a QuickPick, where numbers are randomly generated. The aim is to match the drawn numbers to win prizes across multiple divisions.

== Draw Schedule ==
Powerball draws are conducted weekly on Thursday evenings. The draw results are published shortly after the draw is completed.

== Odds of Winning ==
The odds of winning the Powerball jackpot, which requires matching all seven numbers plus the Powerball, are 1 in 134,490,400. The odds of winning any prize are significantly better, with a 1 in 44 chance.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Odds of Winning by Division
! Division !! Numbers Matched !! Odds
|-
| 1 || 7 + Powerball || 1 in 134,490,400
|-
| 2 || 7 || 1 in 7,078,443
|-
| 3 || 6 + Powerball || 1 in 686,176
|-
| 4 || 6 || 1 in 36,115
|-
| 5 || 5 + Powerball || 1 in 16,943
|-
| 6 || 4 + Powerball || 1 in 1,173
|-
| 7 || 5 || 1 in 892
|-
| 8 || 3 + Powerball || 1 in 188
|-
| 9 || 2 + Powerball || 1 in 66
|}

== Prize Divisions ==
Powerball offers nine prize divisions, with Division 1 being the highest. The prize amounts vary depending on the number of winners and the total prize pool for each draw.

== Record Jackpots ==
The largest Powerball jackpot in Australian history was $150 million, won on 19 September 2019. This record-breaking prize was shared by three winning entries.

== See Also ==
* [[Lotteries]]
* [[The Lott]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.thelott.com/powerball The Lott - Powerball Official Site]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]