<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T12:13:04.901917
    Page: Problem Gambling
    Category: Consumer Protection
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Problem gambling is defined as the urge to gamble continuously despite harmful negative consequences or a desire to stop. It is a significant public health concern in Australia, affecting individuals, families, and communities.

== Problem Gambling Statistics in Australia ==
Problem gambling affects a small but significant portion of the Australian population. Key statistics include:
* Prevalence rates of problem gambling are approximately 0.5-1% of adults.
* At-risk gambling rates are approximately 2-3%.
* Total gambling losses in Australia exceed $25 billion per year.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Problem Gambling Statistics
! Statistic !! Percentage/Amount
|-
| Prevalence of problem gambling || 0.5-1% of adults
|-
| At-risk gambling rates || 2-3%
|-
| Total gambling losses per year || $25+ billion
|}

== Warning Signs of Problem Gambling ==
Problem gambling can manifest through various warning signs, including:
* Spending more money on gambling than intended
* Chasing losses in an attempt to recover lost money
* Lying to family and friends about gambling activities
* Borrowing money or selling possessions to fund gambling
* Neglecting personal and professional responsibilities
* Experiencing relationship problems due to gambling
* Using gambling as a way to escape from problems or stress

== Help and Support Services ==
Numerous support services are available for individuals experiencing problem gambling:
* '''Gambling Help Online''': A 24/7, free, and confidential service available at 1800 858 858.
* '''Gamblers Anonymous Australia''': Offers support through group meetings and resources.
* State-specific counselling services provide tailored support for residents.
* Financial counselling services help manage debt and financial issues related to gambling.

== Self-Exclusion Options ==
Self-exclusion is a voluntary process that allows individuals to exclude themselves from gambling venues and online platforms. Options include:
* '''BetStop''': A national self-exclusion register for online gambling.
* State-specific self-exclusion schemes for land-based venues.

== Treatment Approaches ==
Treatment for problem gambling may involve a combination of psychological therapies, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), support groups, and financial counselling. These approaches aim to address the underlying issues contributing to gambling behavior and provide strategies for managing urges.

== Support for Families and Friends ==
Support is also available for families and friends affected by a loved one's gambling behavior. This includes counselling services, support groups, and educational resources to help them cope and assist the gambler in seeking help.

== See Also ==
* [[Gambling Help Services]]
* [[Problem Gambling Warning Signs]]
* [[BetStop]]
* [[State Self-Exclusion Schemes]]
* [[Responsible Gambling]]
* [[Gambling Harm Statistics]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.gamblinghelponline.org.au Gambling Help Online]
* [https://www.gaaustralia.org.au Gamblers Anonymous Australia]

[[Category:Consumer Protection]]