<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:39:43.684991
    Page: Productivity Commission 2010 Inquiry
    Category: History
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
The '''Productivity Commission 2010 Inquiry''' was the second comprehensive investigation into gambling in Australia conducted by the Productivity Commission. This inquiry updated previous estimates of problem gambling, recommended the implementation of pre-commitment systems, and proposed a $1 maximum bet limit on poker machines. The inquiry's findings and recommendations elicited varied political responses, influencing subsequent gambling policy discussions.

== Updated Problem Gambling Estimates ==
The 2010 inquiry provided revised estimates of problem gambling prevalence in Australia. The Commission estimated that approximately 0.5% to 1% of the adult population were problem gamblers, with an additional 1.4% to 2.1% at moderate risk of developing gambling problems. These estimates highlighted the significant social and economic impacts of gambling-related harm.

== Pre-commitment Recommendations ==
One of the key recommendations from the inquiry was the introduction of pre-commitment systems. These systems would allow gamblers to set limits on their spending before commencing play, aiming to reduce the incidence of problem gambling. The Commission suggested that pre-commitment should be implemented on all electronic gaming machines (EGMs) across Australia.

== $1 Maximum Bet Proposal ==
The inquiry also proposed a $1 maximum bet limit on poker machines. This measure was intended to reduce the potential for significant financial losses in a short period, thereby mitigating harm to individuals susceptible to problem gambling. The proposal was met with resistance from some industry stakeholders who argued it would negatively impact revenue.

== Political Response ==
The findings and recommendations of the 2010 inquiry prompted a range of political reactions. Some policymakers supported the proposed measures as necessary for protecting vulnerable individuals, while others expressed concerns about the economic implications for the gambling industry. The debate over these recommendations influenced the development of gambling policies at both state and federal levels.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Key Recommendations of the 2010 Inquiry
! Recommendation !! Description
|-
| Pre-commitment systems || Implement mandatory pre-commitment on all EGMs
|-
| $1 maximum bet || Limit bets on poker machines to $1
|-
| Improved data collection || Enhance data collection on gambling activities and impacts
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Major Gambling Inquiries]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/completed/gambling-2010 Productivity Commission 2010 Inquiry Report]

[[Category:History]]