<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:33:39.526818
    Page: Racing Betting
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Racing betting in Australia refers to the practice of placing wagers on horse, harness, and greyhound races. It is a fully permitted form of gambling, regulated by both state and federal authorities. The industry is well-established, offering a variety of betting options including totalisator (TAB) and pari-mutuel betting, as well as services from corporate bookmakers.

== Types of Racing ==
Racing betting in Australia encompasses three main types:
* '''Thoroughbred Racing''': The most popular form, involving purebred horses.
* '''Harness Racing''': Features horses pulling a two-wheeled cart called a sulky.
* '''Greyhound Racing''': Involves dogs racing around a track.

== Betting Systems ==
Australian racing betting is facilitated through several systems:
* '''TAB and Pari-mutuel Betting''': Operated by state-run agencies, these systems pool bets and pay out dividends based on the total pool.
* '''Corporate Bookmakers''': Offer fixed odds betting, allowing punters to lock in odds at the time of placing a bet.

== Tote vs Fixed Odds ==
The two primary betting methods are:
* '''Tote Betting''': Also known as pari-mutuel, where all bets are pooled and the payout is determined by the total pool after deductions.
* '''Fixed Odds Betting''': Offered by bookmakers, where the odds are fixed at the time of the bet and do not change.

== Major Racing Events ==
Australia hosts several major racing events that attract significant betting activity:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Event !! Type !! Location !! Month
|-
| Melbourne Cup || Thoroughbred || Melbourne || November
|-
| The Everest || Thoroughbred || Sydney || October
|-
| Inter Dominion || Harness || Rotates || December
|-
| Golden Easter Egg || Greyhound || Sydney || April
|}

== See Also ==
* [[TAB]]
* [[Thoroughbred Racing Betting]]
* [[Greyhound Racing Betting]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.racingaustralia.horse Racing Australia]
* [https://www.tab.com.au TAB Official Site]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au Australian Communications and Media Authority]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]