<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:28:32.556763
    Page: Random Number Generators
    Category: Technical Standards
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
'''Random Number Generators''' (RNGs) are critical components in the gambling industry, ensuring that game outcomes are fair and unpredictable. RNGs are used in various forms of gambling, including pokies, card games, and roulette, to generate random results that cannot be predicted or manipulated.

== Definition and Purpose ==
Random Number Generators are algorithms or devices designed to produce a sequence of numbers or symbols that cannot be reasonably predicted better than by random chance. They are integral to ensuring fairness in gambling by providing unpredictable outcomes.

== PRNG vs TRNG ==
RNGs can be classified into two main types:
* '''Pseudo-Random Number Generators (PRNGs)''': These use algorithms to produce sequences of numbers that appear random. PRNGs are deterministic and require an initial seed value.
* '''True Random Number Generators (TRNGs)''': These rely on physical processes, such as electronic noise, to generate randomness, making them inherently non-deterministic.

== How RNGs Work ==
RNGs operate through algorithms that generate random numbers. The process typically involves:
* '''Seeding''': An initial value, or seed, is used to start the number generation process. In PRNGs, the same seed will produce the same sequence of numbers.
* '''Algorithms''': Mathematical formulas that process the seed to produce a sequence of numbers that mimic randomness.

== Application in Gambling ==
RNGs are used in various gambling applications:
* '''Pokies''': RNGs determine the symbols that appear on the reels.
* '''Card Games''': RNGs shuffle virtual decks to ensure fair play.
* '''Roulette''': RNGs decide the outcome of each spin in electronic versions.

== Certification and Testing ==
RNGs must be certified and tested to ensure they meet industry standards for randomness and fairness. This involves rigorous testing by independent laboratories.

== Australian Standards ==
In Australia, RNGs must comply with specific technical standards to ensure fairness in gambling. These standards are enforced by regulatory bodies such as the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA).

== Testing Laboratories ==
Several accredited laboratories conduct RNG testing to certify compliance with Australian and international standards. These laboratories use statistical tests to verify the randomness of RNG outputs.

== Common Myths Debunked ==
* '''Myth: RNGs can be manipulated''': Properly certified RNGs are designed to be tamper-proof and secure.
* '''Myth: Patterns can be detected in RNGs''': Certified RNGs produce sequences that are statistically random, making pattern detection impossible.

== See Also ==
* [[Return to Player]]
* [[RNG Testing Laboratories]]
* [[Fairness Certification]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au Australian Communications and Media Authority]
* [https://www.gamblingcommission.gov.au Australian Gambling Commission]

[[Category:Technical Standards]]