<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:25:56.778799
    Page: Responsible Gambling Tools
    Category: Consumer Protection
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Responsible gambling tools are mechanisms and features provided by gambling operators to help individuals manage and control their gambling behavior. These tools are designed to promote safe gambling practices and mitigate the risks associated with gambling.

== Deposit Limits ==
Deposit limits allow gamblers to set a maximum amount of money they can deposit into their gambling account over a specified period, such as daily, weekly, or monthly. This helps individuals control their spending and avoid excessive gambling.

== Loss Limits ==
Loss limits enable gamblers to set a cap on the amount of money they are willing to lose over a certain timeframe. Once the limit is reached, the individual will be restricted from further gambling until the limit period resets.

== Time Limits and Session Reminders ==
Time limits and session reminders are tools that allow gamblers to set a maximum duration for their gambling sessions. They receive notifications or reminders when they approach the end of their set time, helping them to manage the time spent on gambling activities.

== Reality Checks ==
Reality checks are periodic notifications that remind gamblers of the time they have spent gambling. These alerts help individuals stay aware of their gambling habits and encourage them to take breaks or stop if necessary.

== Activity Statements ==
Activity statements provide gamblers with detailed records of their gambling activities, including bets placed, wins, losses, and time spent gambling. These statements help individuals track their behavior and make informed decisions about their gambling.

== Betting Controls ==
Betting controls allow gamblers to set restrictions on the types of bets they can place or the maximum stake per bet. This feature helps individuals manage their risk and avoid high-stakes gambling.

== Product Blocking ==
Product blocking enables gamblers to restrict their access to certain gambling products or services. This tool is useful for individuals who want to avoid specific types of gambling that they find particularly risky.

== Account Closure Options ==
Account closure options allow gamblers to temporarily or permanently close their gambling accounts. This can be a voluntary measure for individuals who wish to take a break from gambling or stop altogether.

== How to Access These Tools ==
Responsible gambling tools are typically available through the account settings of online gambling platforms. Users can access these features by logging into their accounts and navigating to the responsible gambling section. Additionally, customer support services can assist with setting up or modifying these tools.

== See Also ==
* [[BetStop]]
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]
* [[Gambling Help Services]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.australia.gov.au/information-and-services/sport-and-recreation/gambling Australian Government - Gambling]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/online-gambling Australian Communications and Media Authority - Online Gambling]

[[Category:Consumer Protection]]