<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T12:12:23.939056
    Page: Responsible Gambling
    Category: Consumer Protection
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Responsible gambling refers to the practices and strategies designed to ensure that gambling remains a safe and enjoyable activity, minimizing the risk of harm to individuals and the community. In Australia, responsible gambling is supported by a range of measures and resources aimed at promoting safe gambling behaviors and providing assistance to those who may experience gambling-related issues.

== National Consumer Protection Framework ==
The National Consumer Protection Framework for Online Wagering in Australia consists of 10 measures designed to enhance consumer protection and promote responsible gambling. These measures include:
* Prohibition of lines of credit offered by wagering providers
* Consistent responsible gambling messaging
* Staff training in responsible gambling
* Reduction in direct marketing
* Account closure and self-exclusion options
* Activity statements for online wagering accounts
* Pre-commitment options for deposit limits
* Consistent customer verification processes
* Restrictions on inducements
* National self-exclusion register

== BetStop National Self-Exclusion Register ==
The BetStop National Self-Exclusion Register is a free service that allows individuals to exclude themselves from all licensed interactive wagering services in Australia. 

; How to Register
: Individuals can register for BetStop by visiting [https://www.betstop.gov.au BetStop] or calling 1800 931 934.

; Exclusion Periods
: The available exclusion periods include 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, or a lifetime exclusion.

== Self-Help Tools Available ==
Responsible gambling is supported by various self-help tools that allow individuals to manage their gambling activities effectively. These tools include:
* '''Deposit limits''': Set limits on the amount of money deposited into gambling accounts.
* '''Loss limits''': Establish limits on the amount of money that can be lost.
* '''Time limits and session reminders''': Set limits on the duration of gambling sessions and receive reminders.
* '''Reality checks''': Periodic notifications to remind gamblers of the time spent gambling.
* '''Activity statements''': Detailed statements of gambling activity to help track spending and behavior.

== Operator Obligations ==
Operators of gambling services in Australia are required to adhere to responsible gambling practices. This includes providing information on responsible gambling, offering self-exclusion options, and ensuring that staff are trained to recognize and respond to signs of problem gambling.

== Warning Signs of Problem Gambling ==
Recognizing the warning signs of problem gambling is crucial for early intervention. These signs may include:
* Preoccupation with gambling
* Increasing amounts of money gambled to achieve excitement
* Repeated unsuccessful attempts to control or stop gambling
* Gambling to escape problems or relieve negative emotions
* Lying to conceal the extent of gambling involvement

== Getting Help ==
Individuals seeking help for gambling-related issues can contact Gambling Help Online at 1800 858 858 or visit [https://www.gamblinghelponline.org.au Gambling Help Online] for support and resources.

== See Also ==
* [[BetStop]]
* [[National Consumer Protection Framework]]
* [[Responsible Gambling Tools]]
* [[Problem Gambling]]
* [[Gambling Help Services]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.betstop.gov.au BetStop]
* [https://www.gamblinghelponline.org.au Gambling Help Online]

[[Category:Consumer Protection]]