<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:28:44.486320
    Page: RNG Testing Laboratories
    Category: Technical Standards
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Random Number Generator (RNG) Testing Laboratories are independent entities that evaluate and certify the randomness and fairness of RNGs used in gambling software. These laboratories ensure that the outcomes of games are unpredictable and unbiased, adhering to technical standards and regulations.

== Major RNG Testing Laboratories ==

=== BMM Testlabs ===
BMM Testlabs is one of the oldest and most experienced private independent gaming testing laboratories. Founded in 1981, BMM provides testing, regulatory compliance, and certification services to the gaming industry.

=== Gaming Laboratories International (GLI) ===
Gaming Laboratories International (GLI) offers testing and certification services for gaming devices and systems. Established in 1989, GLI operates globally and is recognized for its comprehensive testing methodologies.

=== iTech Labs ===
iTech Labs is an Australian-based testing laboratory that specializes in the certification of online gaming systems. The laboratory is known for its rigorous testing processes and has been operational since 2004.

=== eCOGRA ===
eCOGRA (eCommerce Online Gaming Regulation and Assurance) is a UK-based testing agency that provides certification for online gaming operators. Established in 2003, eCOGRA focuses on player protection and fair gaming practices.

== Testing and Certification Process ==

RNG testing involves a series of statistical analyses and evaluations to ensure that the random number sequences generated by the software are truly random and not predictable. The certification process typically includes:

* Verification of RNG algorithms
* Statistical randomness tests
* Continuous compliance checks

{| class="wikitable"
|+ RNG Testing and Certification Process
! Step !! Description
|-
| Algorithm Verification || Ensures that the RNG algorithm is mathematically sound and secure.
|-
| Randomness Testing || Conducts statistical tests to confirm randomness and unpredictability.
|-
| Compliance Checks || Ongoing evaluations to maintain certification standards.
|}

== How to Verify Certification ==

To verify the certification of an RNG, one can:

* Check the testing laboratory's official website for a list of certified operators.
* Look for certification seals or logos on the gambling platform.
* Contact the testing laboratory directly for confirmation.

== See Also ==
* [[Random Number Generators]]
* [[Fairness Certification]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.bmm.com BMM Testlabs Official Website]
* [https://gaminglabs.com Gaming Laboratories International Official Website]
* [https://itechlabs.com iTech Labs Official Website]
* [https://ecogra.org eCOGRA Official Website]

[[Category:Technical Standards]]