<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:33:28.879360
    Page: Same Game Multi
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
A "Same Game Multi" is a type of sports bet that allows bettors to combine multiple selections from the same sporting event into a single wager. This form of betting is popular among sports enthusiasts who wish to increase their potential payout by linking several outcomes within one game.

== How They Work ==
Same Game Multi bets enable bettors to select various outcomes from a single match, such as the winner, total points scored, and individual player performances. The odds for each selection are multiplied together to form the overall odds for the multi-bet.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Example of Same Game Multi Bet
! Selection
! Odds
|-
| Team A to win
| 1.80
|-
| Total points over 200
| 2.00
|-
| Player X to score 20+ points
| 3.50
|-
| '''Total Odds'''
| '''12.60'''
|}

== Correlation Rules ==
When placing a Same Game Multi, it is important to consider correlation rules. Correlated outcomes are those where the result of one selection may directly affect another. Bookmakers often adjust odds or restrict certain combinations to account for this correlation, ensuring that the overall odds reflect the true probability of all selections occurring.

== Risks ==
As with all forms of gambling, Same Game Multi bets carry inherent risks. The complexity of predicting multiple outcomes in a single event increases the difficulty of winning. Bettors should be aware of the potential for significant losses, especially when placing high-stake multi-bets.

== Responsible Gambling Concerns ==
Responsible gambling is a critical consideration when engaging in Same Game Multi betting. Bettors are encouraged to set limits, stay informed about the risks, and seek help if gambling becomes problematic. Various resources and support services are available to promote responsible gambling practices.

== See Also ==
* [[Types of Sports Bets]]
* [[Sports Betting]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.responsiblegambling.vic.gov.au/ Victorian Responsible Gambling Foundation]
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]