<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:32:59.829505
    Page: Sports Betting
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Sports betting in Australia refers to the practice of placing wagers on the outcome of sports events. It is a popular form of gambling regulated by both federal and state laws. While pre-match betting is widely permitted, in-play betting is subject to restrictions under the Interactive Gambling Act 2001.

== Legal Status ==
In Australia, sports betting is legal and regulated, with specific rules governing different types of bets. Pre-match betting is permitted across all states and territories, allowing bettors to place wagers before the commencement of a sporting event. However, in-play betting, which involves placing bets during the event, is restricted to telephone and in-person transactions, prohibiting online in-play betting.

== Licensed Operators ==
Sports betting operators in Australia must be licensed by the relevant state or territory authority. The Northern Territory is a popular jurisdiction for licensing due to its favorable regulatory environment. Licensed operators are required to adhere to strict guidelines to ensure fair play and consumer protection.

== Types of Bets ==
Sports betting in Australia offers various types of bets, including:
* '''Fixed Odds''': A traditional form of betting where the odds are set at the time the bet is placed.
* '''Multi''': A combination of multiple bets, where all selections must win for the bettor to receive a payout.
* '''Same Game Multi''': A type of multi bet that allows bettors to combine selections from the same game into a single bet.

== Popular Sports ==
The most popular sports for betting in Australia include:
* Australian Rules Football
* Rugby League
* Cricket
* Soccer
* Horse Racing

== In-Play Restrictions ==
Under the Interactive Gambling Act 2001, in-play betting is restricted to telephone and in-person methods. Online in-play betting is prohibited to prevent impulsive gambling and to promote responsible gambling practices.

== Responsible Gambling Features ==
Licensed operators are required to implement responsible gambling features, such as:
* Self-exclusion programs
* Deposit limits
* Reality checks
* Access to support services

== How to Bet ==
To place a sports bet in Australia, individuals must:
# Choose a licensed operator.
# Create an account and verify their identity.
# Deposit funds into their account.
# Select the desired sport and type of bet.
# Place the bet before the event starts or via permitted in-play methods.

== See Also ==
* [[Interactive Gambling Act 2001]]
* [[In-Play Betting Restrictions]]
* [[Northern Territory Licensing]]
* [[Sports Betting Operators]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority]
* [https://www.responsiblegambling.vic.gov.au/ Victorian Responsible Gambling Foundation]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]