<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:33:19.500548
    Page: Types of Sports Bets
    Category: Gambling Types
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Sports betting involves wagering on the outcome of sports events. There are various types of sports bets that cater to different preferences and strategies. These include head-to-head bets, line betting, over/under bets, futures, multi-bets, same game multis, prop bets, and different odds formats.

== Head-to-Head (Match Result) ==
Head-to-head betting, also known as match result betting, involves predicting the winner of a specific match or event. This is one of the simplest forms of sports betting.

== Line Betting (Handicap) ==
Line betting, or handicap betting, involves giving one team a virtual advantage or disadvantage to even the playing field. This type of bet is popular in sports where there is a perceived imbalance between the competitors.

== Over/Under (Totals) ==
Over/under betting, also known as totals betting, involves wagering on whether the total points scored in a game will be over or under a specified number set by the bookmaker.

== Futures (Outright) ==
Futures bets are wagers placed on the outcome of an event that will occur in the future, such as which team will win a championship. These bets are typically placed well in advance of the event.

== Multi-Bets (Parlays) ==
Multi-bets, or parlays, involve combining multiple bets into one. All selections must win for the bettor to receive a payout, which is higher due to the increased risk.

== Same Game Multi ==
A same game multi allows bettors to combine multiple selections from the same game into a single bet. This type of bet is popular for its potential high returns and flexibility.

== Prop Bets ==
Proposition bets, or prop bets, are wagers on specific events within a game that do not necessarily affect the final outcome. Examples include betting on which player will score first.

== Odds Formats ==
Sports betting odds can be presented in different formats, including decimal, fractional, and moneyline. Decimal odds are commonly used in Australia and represent the total payout, including the stake.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Odds Formats
! Format !! Example !! Description
|-
| Decimal || 1.50 || Represents the total payout for a $1 bet, including the stake.
|-
| Fractional || 1/2 || Shows the profit relative to the stake; a $2 bet returns $1 profit.
|-
| Moneyline || -200 || Indicates how much needs to be wagered to win $100 (negative) or how much is won on a $100 bet (positive).
|}

== See Also ==
* [[Sports Betting]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority]
* [https://www.australia.gov.au/ Australian Government]

[[Category:Gambling Types]]