<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:32:47.265117
    Page: Underage Gambling Prevention
    Category: Consumer Protection
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Underage gambling prevention refers to the laws and measures implemented to prevent individuals under the age of 18 from participating in gambling activities. These regulations are designed to protect minors from the potential harms associated with gambling and to ensure that gambling remains a responsible and regulated activity.

== Minimum Age Requirements ==
In Australia, the legal minimum age for participating in gambling activities is 18 years across all jurisdictions. This age limit applies to all forms of gambling, including lotteries, casinos, and online gambling platforms.

== Age Verification Requirements ==
Operators of gambling services are required by law to implement robust age verification processes to ensure that all participants are of legal age. These processes typically involve the collection and verification of identification documents before allowing access to gambling services.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Age Verification Methods
! Method
! Description
|-
| Identification Document Check
| Verification of government-issued ID such as a driver's license or passport.
|-
| Electronic Verification
| Use of online databases to confirm age and identity.
|-
| Manual Review
| Physical inspection of documents by trained personnel.
|}

== Penalties for Operators ==
Operators who fail to comply with age verification requirements or who allow underage individuals to gamble face significant penalties. These can include fines, suspension of licenses, and other legal actions.

== Parental Controls ==
Many online gambling platforms offer parental control features that allow parents to restrict access to gambling sites on their devices. These controls are an important tool in preventing underage gambling.

== Education Programs ==
Various education programs are in place to raise awareness about the risks of underage gambling. These programs are often run by schools, community organizations, and government agencies, aiming to educate young people and their parents about responsible gambling practices.

== See Also ==
* [[Know Your Customer Requirements]]
* [[NCPF Measure 8 - Customer Verification]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au/ Australian Communications and Media Authority - Gambling]
* [https://www.responsiblegambling.vic.gov.au/ Responsible Gambling Victoria]

[[Category:Consumer Protection]]