<!--
    Generated: 2026-01-12T11:29:06.460549
    Page: Volatility and Variance
    Category: Technical Standards
    Generator: OpenAI GPT-4o
-->
Volatility and variance are terms used in gambling to describe the level of risk associated with a particular game. They refer to the frequency and size of payouts in a game, affecting the overall gameplay experience. Understanding these concepts is crucial for players who wish to manage their bankroll and choose games that suit their risk preference.

== Definition of Volatility and Variance ==
Volatility, also known as variance, measures the risk involved in a gambling game. It indicates how much the outcomes of a game can deviate from the expected results. High volatility games have larger but less frequent payouts, while low volatility games offer smaller, more frequent payouts.

== Low, Medium, and High Volatility ==
Volatility in gambling is often categorized into three levels:
* '''Low Volatility''': Games with low volatility offer frequent, smaller wins. These games are suitable for players who prefer a steady stream of returns and lower risk.
* '''Medium Volatility''': Medium volatility games strike a balance between frequency and size of payouts. They are ideal for players who enjoy moderate risk and reward.
* '''High Volatility''': High volatility games provide larger payouts but are less frequent. These games are suited for players who are willing to take higher risks for the chance of significant rewards.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Volatility Levels and Characteristics
! Volatility Level !! Frequency of Wins !! Size of Wins !! Suitable for
|-
| Low || High || Small || Risk-averse players
|-
| Medium || Moderate || Moderate || Balanced risk-takers
|-
| High || Low || Large || Risk-tolerant players
|}

== Impact on Gameplay Experience ==
The volatility of a game significantly impacts the player's experience. Low volatility games provide a more predictable and stable experience, while high volatility games can be more thrilling and unpredictable. Players should choose games based on their personal risk tolerance and entertainment preferences.

== Relationship to RTP ==
Volatility is related to the [[Return to Player]] (RTP) percentage, which indicates the average amount a game returns to players over time. While RTP provides a long-term expectation, volatility determines the short-term fluctuations in payouts. A game can have a high RTP but still be high volatility, meaning players might experience long periods without significant wins.

== Volatility in Pokies ==
In Australia, pokies (poker machines) are a popular form of gambling where volatility plays a crucial role. Pokies can vary widely in volatility, and understanding this can help players select machines that align with their desired risk level and gaming experience.

== How to Identify Volatility ==
Players can identify the volatility of a game through several methods:
* Reviewing the game's paytable and rules, which often indicate volatility.
* Observing the frequency and size of payouts during gameplay.
* Consulting online resources and reviews that analyze game volatility.

== See Also ==
* [[Return to Player]]
* [[Poker Machines]]

== External Links ==
* [https://www.acma.gov.au Australian Communications and Media Authority]
* [https://www.australianegambling.com Australian Gambling Research Centre]

[[Category:Technical Standards]]